---
layout: post
title: 2015
---


# 2015 retrospective

I haven't blogged in a great while, but I figured I would at the end / start of the year.

It's being a bumpy ride in the last 2 years. I missed writing a yearly retrospective last year, so I really had to do it for this one.


Ok, here it goes. (btw, I won't name drop)

# Major points in the year:

## Writing book reviews

Book reviewing has been a habit of mine that started on a whim.

Looking back into 2014, when I started reviewing books and 2 years later,

I can say that this has been one of the best decisions I've made.

Book reviewing gives me the opportunity in a rather serious manner, to give feedback to authors' and help other people pick a better read.

Needless to say, I review mostly (90%) technical books. I just can't read a non-technical book anymore.

To anyone wanting to pick a good habbit - start reviewing books. Goodreads is a good platform for that.

To anyone reviewing books longer than me wondering why Goodreas over Amazon - Goodreads gives me a more structured and focused on book reviewing approach.

Also you'll definitely receive recognition for your reviews at some point. For me this happened after 2 years. But as the Johnie Walker ad goes - "You'll reach further as long as you have fun on the way.".

Make sure you enjoy it! :)

## Met wonderful colleagues in a new job

March I started a new job. 2nd/3rd job of mine where I was actively part of a great team that developed web and mobile apps.

I learnt a lot about Agile development, team work, what it means to be reliable and how social and fun a company can be.

And the time passed faster than I could ever imagine. :)

Yet, in the fall the job started to become a run, not a marathon. The client was under pressure and it started to reflect
on the tech team. At that point my hair started to fal while I barely made 21 years in September. I knew that this wasn't supposed to be.

While I loved the team at that job and still do, I started to look for new opportunies and found a new home in the new job.
And after a stay of 9 months, I changed the job. Move on to next section.

## Met wonderful colleagues in a new job, again

The new job revolves around developing a forex trading platform. The platform is mature but there's a lot of work.

The problems that need to be solved are varying in difficulty and time. The team just recently started growing and there are workflow-based problems that need to be solved.

This is probably the best place to work at if you want to actually prove you are a problem-solver. Yet I feel like I'm under-performing
as I'm currently closing a period where I had one of the worst time management and efficiency in the past year. I hadn't been able to complete and review
a book for one whole month at a time. While I did definitely reach 50% and more of more than 1 book, I didn't commit till the end.

However, as the new year comes with new resolutions, this is to change. If nothing good comes out of the resolutions - at least you have the motivation in
the first two months. :D But we all know motivation comes and goes. It's the habbit that stays and keeps you running.

## Spoke at a tech conference to 1000 people

This also happened on a whim where I thought - what could possibly go right if I spoke at a tech conference even though

I've never done it before and I'm not a natural talent to begin with.

Turns out the talk about "Open-source contributing" was delivered by me better than expected.

I met new people and had fun at the conference. Huge props for the organizers for giving me the chance!

# Minor points:

## No rest for the wicked - contributing ever more

I'm only happy when it rains.. wait, what?

I'm happy when I contribute to open source projects and make a change.

In 2015 I submitted some good PRs to ubuntu-make, but in the fall I started slacking big time

and even switched to Ruby. While I think Ruby has more flaws than Python language-wise excluding tooling and eco-system,

I contribute a bit more in Ruby now and try to be useful here and there with JS.

For the life of mine I can't start something useful by myself. I'll be eternally "envious" (proud) of the people who

are able to recognize a problem in a language's community and bring out a tool to solve it. It needs a lot of experience,

nerves and will to make something usable out of it.


## Imposter syndrome

As time goes, people's expectations grow and the burden gets heavier.

While my goals aren't easy to begin with, I suffered from imposter syndrome a lot this year.

At points I felt I was absolutely bad and unable to solve problems while I was ctually receiving praise for my performance.

One thing is certain - my opinion of my performance is mixed. I always aim for the top, but fall short.

If I could wish to straighten one thing out in the 2016, it's to focus on less things and excell at them.

I reach new levels where I'm surrounded with amazing people. Being subpar isn't an option.

## Spacemacs (Evil Emacs) user

Finnaly I joined the master race! Jokes aside, Emacs and Vim were always on my radar,

but I never had enough drive to make the change.

Well in the fall I finally changed. Spacemacs hit all the right spots.

It had everything I needed to start using Emacs and Vim at the same time.

Leaving behind Sublime Text and Atom is a big plus for me.

While I can't say I'm comfortable in Spacemacs yet, I definitely get more out of it than Atom could ever gi

For anyone wondering, I'm using Spacemacs in Evil mode (Vim mode).

I honestly think modal editing is a better fit for me, but the Emacs toolset impressed me more.

Learning Lisp is one of my goals.



## Conclusion

Seasons die one after another

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/wtJcLWeY114" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
